# Dijkstra performance

Dijkstra's algorithm is widely shown to have O(n log n) asymtotic performance.
To test performance random graphs are constructed with graph.EuclideanLabeled
and random start nodes are chosen.  As shown in the example here, these graphs
can have sinks and even isolated nodes.  Start nodes are are chosen to not be
sink nodes but are otherwise random.

image::https://cdn.rawgit.com/soniakeys/graph/svg-v0/bench/img/Euclidean.svg[]

The Benchmark function of the testing package is useful for accurate timings
on a given graph from a given start node.  Graphs of various sizes are
constructed with order N a power of 2 ranging from 2^4 through 2^22.
On the machine used for testing these graphs fit easily in RAM and don't take
terribly long to test.  Each graph is tested with five randomly chosen start
nodes.  The minimum and maximum of the five times for each graph are shown here
with error bars.  Also an n log n curve is fit and shown with the solid line

image::https://cdn.rawgit.com/soniakeys/graph/svg-v0/bench/img/DijkstraAllPaths.svg[]

The plot shows the implementation performing near the expected O(n log n).
Inspection of the code shows that there is certainly an O(n) term but the plot
indicates this term must have little significance.  Also complications of
memory management and memory architecture can be expected to add additional
terms but these too appear to have little significance over the range tested.

As an additional test, AllPaths is benchmarked on graph.Geometric graphs.
These are undirected graphs with some different connectivity.

image::https://cdn.rawgit.com/soniakeys/graph/svg-v0/bench/img/Geometric.svg[]

A construction parameter for these graphs is not the number of edges but a
radius from each node within which nodes are connected.  The resulting number
of edges can be controlled with the radius parameter but is somewhat imprecise.

image::https://cdn.rawgit.com/soniakeys/graph/svg-v0/bench/img/DijkstraAllPathsGeo.svg[]

The test here is over a shorter range of graph sizes because the code behind
the current graph.Geometric is simple and O(nÂ²) and not practical for larger
graphs.  The curve fit is not quite as good as with the Euclidean graphs but
still fairly close to n log n over the range tested.

